Document MSBuild integration (#38846)
dotnet/docs: docs/core/testing/unit-testing-mstest-runner-integrations.md

---
title: MSTest runner integrations
description: Learn how to run MSTest runner tests through MSBuild and dotnet test.
author: nohwnd
ms.author: jajares
ms.date: 12/20/2023
---

# MSTest runner integrations

This article describes how to use `dotnet test` to run tests and the various options that are available to configure the MSBuild output produced when running tests.

MSTest runner integrates with MSBuild and `dotnet test` to provide a simple way to run all tests in a solution (`.sln`) or in a single project.

## `dotnet test` integration

> `dotnet test` command is a way to run tests from solutions, projects or already built assemblies. MSTest runner hooks up into this infrastructure to provide a unified way to run tests. Especially when migrating from VSTest to MSTest runner.

Author: ```suggestion
[dotnet test](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-test) command is a way to run tests from solutions, projects or already built assemblies. [MSTest runner](https://learn.microsoft.com/dotnet/core/testing/unit-testing-mstest-runner-intro) hooks up into this infrastructure to provide a unified way to run tests. Especially when migrating from VSTest to MSTest runner.
```

---
title: Use MSTest runner with `dotnet test`
description: Learn how to run MSTest runner tests through dotnet test.
author: nohwnd
ms.author: jajares
ms.date: 12/20/2023
---

# Use MSTest runner with `dotnet test`

This article describes how to use `dotnet test` to run tests when using MSTest runner, and the various options that are available to configure the MSBuild output produced when running tests through MSTest runner.

> This article shows how to use `dotnet test` to run all tests in a solution (`.sln`) that uses MSTest runner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article shows how to use `dotnet test` to run all tests in a solution (_*.sln_) that uses MSTest runner.
```

## `dotnet test` integration

`dotnet test` command is a way to run tests from solutions, projects or already built assemblies. MSTest runner hooks up into this infrastructure to provide a unified way to run tests. Especially when migrating from VSTest to MSTest runner.

### `dotnet test` integration - VSTest mode

> MSTest runner provides a compatibility layer to work with `dotnet test` seamlessly. This layer requires `Microsoft.Testing.Platform.MSBuild` NuGet package. This package is automatically installed as a dependency of `MSTest` and `MSTest.TestAdapter` package.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
MSTest runner provides a compatibility layer to work with `dotnet test` seamlessly. This layer requires [Microsoft.Testing.Platform.MSBuild](https://nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Testing.Platform.MSBuild) NuGet package. This package is automatically installed as a dependency of [MSTest](https://nuget.org/packages/MSTest) and [MSTest.TestAdapter](https://nuget.org/packages/MSTest.TestAdapter) package.
```

Tests can be run by running:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```dotnetcli
```

dotnet test
```

This layer runs test through VSTest and integrates with it on VSTest Test Framework Adapter level.

### `dotnet test` - MSTest runner mode

By default, VSTest is used to run MSTest runner tests. You can enable a full MSTest runner by specifying the `<TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>` setting in your project. This setting disables VSTest.

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
    <ImplicitUsings>enable</ImplicitUsings>
    <Nullable>enable</Nullable>

    <IsPackable>false</IsPackable>
    <IsTestProject>true</IsTestProject>

    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <EnableMSTestRunner>true</EnableMSTestRunner>

    <!-- Add this to your project file. -->
    <TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>

  </PropertyGroup>

>   ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <!-- ... -->
```

</Project>
```

In this mode additional parameters to the run are not provided directly through commandline. They need to be provided as MSBuild property `TestingPlatformCommandLineArguments`:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```dotnetcli
```

dotnet test -p:TestingPlatformCommandLineArguments=" --minimum-expected-tests 10 "
```

## Additional MSBuild options

The MSBuild integration provides options that can be specified in user project or through global properties on command line, such as `-p:TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure=true`.

These are the available options:

### Show failure per test

By default test failures are summarized into a _.log_ file, and a single failure per test project is reported to MSBuild.

> [!CAUTION]
> Enabling this option adds overhead to test execution and may degrade performance.

To show errors per failed test, specify `-p:TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure=true` on commandline, or add `<TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>true</TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>` property to your project file.

On command line:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```dotnetcli
```

dotnet test -p:TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure=true
```

Or in project file:

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
    <ImplicitUsings>enable</ImplicitUsings>
    <Nullable>enable</Nullable>

    <IsPackable>false</IsPackable>
    <IsTestProject>true</IsTestProject>

    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <EnableMSTestRunner>true</EnableMSTestRunner>

    <TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>

    <!-- Add this to your project file. -->
    <TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>true</TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>

  </PropertyGroup>

>   ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <!-- ... -->
```

</Project>
```

### Show complete platform output

By default, all console output that the underlying test executable writes is captured and hidden from the user. This includes the banner, version information, and formatted test information.

> [!CAUTION]
> Enabling this option adds overhead to test execution and may degrade performance.

To show this information together with MSBuild output use`<TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>false</TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>`.

This option doesn't impact how the testing framework captures user output written by `Console.WriteLine` or other similar ways to write to the console.

On command line:

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```dotnetcli
```

dotnet test -p:TestingPlatformCaptureOutput=true
```

Or in project file:

```xml
<Project Sdk="Microsoft.NET.Sdk">

  <PropertyGroup>
    <TargetFramework>net8.0</TargetFramework>
    <ImplicitUsings>enable</ImplicitUsings>
    <Nullable>enable</Nullable>

    <IsPackable>false</IsPackable>
    <IsTestProject>true</IsTestProject>

    <OutputType>Exe</OutputType>
    <EnableMSTestRunner>true</EnableMSTestRunner>

    <TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>

    <!-- Add this to your project file. -->
    <TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>false</TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>

  </PropertyGroup>

>   ...

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <!-- ... -->
```

---
title: MSTest runner integrations
description: Learn how to run MSTest runner tests through MSBuild and dotnet test.
author: nohwnd
ms.author: jajares
ms.date: 12/20/2023
---

# MSTest runner integrations

MSTest runner integrates with MSBuild and `dotnet test` to provide a simple way to run all tests in a solution (`.sln`) or in a single project.

> ## `dotnet test` integration

Reviewer 3: These H2 headers need at least a sentence after them introducing the section. This impacts SEO and prevents the article from looking bad.

### `dotnet test` integration - VSTest mode

MSTest runner provides a compatibility layer to work with `dotnet test` seamlessly. This layer requires `Microsoft.Testing.Platform.MSBuild` NuGet package. This package is automatically installed as a dependency of `MSTest` and `MSTest.TestAdapter` package.

Tests can be executed by running:

```
dotnet test
```

This layer runs test through VSTest and integrates with it on VSTest Test Framework Adapter level.

### `dotnet test` - MSTest runner mode

> By default VSTest is used to execute MSTest runner tests. User can opt-in to a fully MSTest runner provided mode. This mode integrates directly with the `dotnet test` target at MSBuild target level. The user opts-in by specifying `<TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>` in their csproj file. When this mode is enabled, VSTest is not used to run tests at all.

Reviewer 2: This is true also for VB.NET and F# so I would avoid saying `csproj`.

Author: ```suggestion
By default VSTest is used to execute MSTest runner tests. User can opt-in to a fully MSTest runner provided mode. This mode integrates directly with the `dotnet test` target at MSBuild target level. The user opts-in by specifying `<TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>` in their project file. When this mode is enabled, VSTest is not used to run tests at all.
```

In this mode additional parameters to the run are not provided directly through commandline. They need to be provided as MSBuild property `TestingPlatformCommandLineArguments`:

```
dotnet test -p:TestingPlatformCommandLineArguments=" --minimum-expected-tests 10 "
```

> ## Additional MSBuild options

Reviewer 3: Same here

### Show failure per test

> By default test failures are summarized into an output file (`.log` file), and a single failure per test project is reported to MSBuild.

Reviewer 2: I would add a note to say this is disabled by default for performance reason (especially useful for CI)

> To show errors per failed test, specify
> `<TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>true</TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>` in your project file.

Author: ```suggestion

> [!CAUTION]
> Enabling this option adds overhead to test execution and may degrade performance.

To show errors per failed test, specify `<TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>true</TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>` in your project file.
```

### Show complete platform output

> Be default all console output that the underlying test executable writes is captured and hidden from the user. This includes the banner, version information, and formatted test information. To show this information together with MSBuild output use

Reviewer 2: I would add a note to say this is disabled by default for performance reason (especially useful for CI)

> Be default all console output that the underlying test executable writes is captured and hidden from the user. This includes the banner, version information, and formatted test information. To show this information together with MSBuild output use
> `<TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>false</TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>`.

Author: ```suggestion
Be default all console output that the underlying test executable writes is captured and hidden from the user. This includes the banner, version information, and formatted test information.

> [!CAUTION]
> Enabling this option adds overhead to test execution and may degrade performance.

To show this information together with MSBuild output use`<TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>false</TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>`.
```

---
title: MSTest runner integrations
description: Learn how to run MSTest runner tests through MSBuild and dotnet test.
author: nohwnd
ms.author: jajares
ms.date: 12/20/2023
---

# MSTest runner integrations

MSTest runner integrates with MSBuild and `dotnet test` to provide a simple way to run all tests in a solution (`.sln`) or in a single project.

## `dotnet test` integration

### `dotnet test` integration - VSTest mode

MSTest runner provides a compatibility layer to work with `dotnet test` seamlessly. This layer requires `Microsoft.Testing.Platform.MSBuild` NuGet package. This package is automatically installed as a dependency of `MSTest` and `MSTest.TestAdapter` package.

Tests can be executed by running:

```
dotnet test
```

This layer runs test through VSTest and integrates with it on VSTest Test Framework Adapter level.

### `dotnet test` - MSTest runner mode

> By default VSTest is used to execute MSTest runner tests. User can opt-in to a fully MSTest runner provided mode. This mode integrates directly with the `dotnet test` target at MSBuild target level. The user opts-in by specifying `<TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>` in their project file. When this mode is enabled, VSTest is not used to run tests at all.

Reviewer 3: You shouldn't say "User" here, because you're talking to the reader directly. They're here to learn something so you can address them directly. Also, unless needed to clarify something, you should use the word `run` instead of `execute` as `execute` can also mean to kill a person:
```suggestion
By default, VSTest is used to run MSTest runner tests. You can opt-in to a fully MSTest runner provided mode. This mode integrates directly with the `dotnet test` target at MSBuild target level. You opt-in by specifying `<TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>` in your project file. When this mode is enabled, VSTest is not used to run tests at all.
```
You sort of repeat "opt-in" again, so here's a different suggestion merging those two:
```suggestion
By default, VSTest is used to run MSTest runner tests. You can enable a full MSTest runner by specifying the `<TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>true</TestingPlatformDotnetTestSupport>` setting in your project. This setting disables VSTest.
```
And you should provide the XML here too.

Author: applied the second option and added xml

In this mode additional parameters to the run are not provided directly through commandline. They need to be provided as MSBuild property `TestingPlatformCommandLineArguments`:

```
dotnet test -p:TestingPlatformCommandLineArguments=" --minimum-expected-tests 10 "
```

## Additional MSBuild options

### Show failure per test

> By default test failures are summarized into an output file (`.log` file), and a single failure per test project is reported to MSBuild.

Reviewer 3: file's should be styled with italics
```suggestion
By default test failures are summarized into a _.log_ file, and a single failure per test project is reported to MSBuild.
```

> [!CAUTION]
> Enabling this option adds overhead to test execution and may degrade performance.

> To show errors per failed test, specify `<TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>true</TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>` in your project file.

Reviewer 3: It would be good to add a ``` code block with an example of the XML used in the project. It makes it easy for users to copy\paste.

> To show errors per failed test, specify `<TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>true</TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure>` in your project file.

Reviewer 4: We could also add the `-p:TestingPlatformShowTestsFailure=true` mode to make it global.

### Show complete platform output

> Be default all console output that the underlying test executable writes is captured and hidden from the user. This includes the banner, version information, and formatted test information.

Reviewer 3: error here:
```suggestion
By default, all console output that the underlying test executable writes is captured and hidden from the user. This includes the banner, version information, and formatted test information.
```

> [!CAUTION]
> Enabling this option adds overhead to test execution and may degrade performance.

> To show this information together with MSBuild output use`<TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>false</TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>`.

Reviewer 3: It would be good to add a ``` code block with an example of the XML used in the project. It makes it easy for users to copy\paste.

> To show this information together with MSBuild output use`<TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>false</TestingPlatformCaptureOutput>`.

Reviewer 4: We could also add the -p:TestingPlatformCaptureOutput=true mode to make it global.

> This option does not impact how the testing framework captures user output written by `Console.WriteLine` or other similar ways to write to the console.

Reviewer 3: style guide error
```suggestion
This option doesn't impact how the testing framework captures user output written by `Console.WriteLine` or other similar ways to write to the console.
```
